# Contributing Guide

I use a workflow with prism where you create an instance of the github repo so that it can sync your ingame files with Git. Allowing you to edit files ingame, commit from and pull to your instance all without needing to drag files around to another folder.

The workflow uses Pakku to sync/add/fetch mods to and from a manifest file that stores all the mods data.

You can use `pakku --yes fetch` to pull/update all mods from the local pakku file after performing `git pull` or on initial setup.

Using `pakku --yes sync` will update the manifest file from all your locally installed mods, you should really use `pakku add` Instead of this unless I really trust you!

Contributing expects you to understand Git, command line, and GitHub basics. Or get assistance from a developer do so.

Instance/repo workflow setup (Only supports Prism Launcher):
1. Install pakku through Scoop on windows, or another method on mac/linux
2. Open your prism instances folder, (e.g. `\AppData\Roaming\PrismLauncher\instances\`) in a terminal/cmd, and clone the repo to your instances with `git clone https://github.com/Quantum-Studios-MC/Enderdynamics-1.21.1.git` make sure you're in the correct directory!
3. Open the new instances "minecraft" folder in a terminal, and run `pakku fetch` to install mods from pakku manifest
4. Now the instance can be launched, you can open the minecraft or instance folder with an IDE (VSCode recommended, ProbeJS extension should NOT be used.)

I prefer to make commits from my IDE, using VSCodes built in git integration, then pushing and pulling from cmd within my instance folder.

Remember to use pakku to fetch possible mod changes after pulling.

**[ProbeJS](https://www.curseforge.com/minecraft/mc-mods/probejs) usage guide:**

ProbeJS is an addon for [KubeJS](https://kubejs.com/wiki) which dumps information/"typing data" about classes KubeJS and addons have access to. Allowing you to see available functions, their usages, registries, and more to develop KubeJS scripts much easier.

**Some examples I made of things ProbeJS does:** [Server (Mineraft Pack Development)](https://discord.gg/28W6cQH), [Messages](https://discord.com/channels/362322551684464641/919534613423063080/1415111204405252158)

**Mod setup:**

*You do not need the ProbeJS VSCode extension to use ProbeJS!* All the mods extension does under 1.21 is allow showing icons on item registries if you have a specific mod to work with it.

Note that ProbeJS data isn't exclusively usable by VSCode, but rather any IDE with a typescript server such as IntelliJ (I believe their typescript features are premium only however)

**Here I'll share my process to get Probe working and possible issues that may occur:**

1. Close your IDE (usually vscode) and minecraft.

2. If you're minimizing ram given you may need to allocate more ram for a ProbeJS dump to go well, I allocate 2 extra gigs when dumping ProbeJS to ensure the dump runs smooth instead of getting stuck forever.

3. Launch your minecraft instance, with VSCode and all files related to KubeJS still closed as to assure they are able to be modified

4. Load up a world and run in chat:
`/probejs clear_cache` (unsure if needed I just use it to be entirely safe and it works out)
`/probejs dump` 

5. After running dump this can take a while depending on your amount of mods and total things registered + addons, it will give you messages in chat about the dumps progress and more info in your log if you want to ensure it's going well

6. The dump is done once it claims something along the lines of "typing data generation finished", not "docs" generation

7. After this you open your minecraft folder in IDE (your MC root with saves, configs, kubejs etc) you can right click the mc folder and right click "open with vscode". Sometimes opening the KubeJS folder works but you're intended to use .minecraft afaik.

8. After opening the whole MC folder, you can navigate in your IDE's file tree to your KubeJS folder and scripts, opening a script should load the typing data generated by ProbeJS

9. In VSC It should say at the bottom of your IDE "Loading kubejs/jsconfig", if this takes very long or it claims your typescript server crashed 5 times, then try closing VSC re-launching the game and doing the dump process again (it may even takes a few tries which sucks, but ProbeJS ends up generating unreadable symbols sometimes)

For ProbeJS usage refer to my linked examples earlier

Things like mods being added or removed, Editing schema files, KubeJS addon changes, would require re-dumping ProbeJS to update with proper syntaxes and registry access. (You would really want to re-dump for Schema changes in specific, so you dont use wrong parameters.)
